# Kaggle Make-Data-Count - Finding-Data-References Bronze
Kaggle competition bronze (116/1282) solution<br>
This repository contains my solution for the Kaggle competition "Make Data Count - Finding Data References." The goal of the competition is to identify data citations in scientific papers and classify them as Primary (generated by the study) or Secondary (reused from existing sources).

## Competition Overview
Make Data Count (MDC) aims to measure the value of scientific data by linking papers to the data they use. Current links are incomplete, so this competition seeks models that can automatically find and add high-quality, contextual data-to-paper connections to the MDC Data Citation Corpus.

## Competition Goal
Identify all data citations in scientific papers and classify them as:
- Primary: Data generated specifically for the study
- Secondary: Data reused or derived from existing sources

## Evaluation
The competition uses the F1-score, which balances precision (true positives among predicted positives) and recall (true positives among actual positives). A good model maximizes both, so moderate performance on both is favored over excellent performance on one and poor performance on the other.

## Submission
- Identify all data references in the test set and submit as unique tuples (article_id, dataset_id, type).
- Each (dataset_id, type) per article should appear only once.
- Include only articles that contain data references; articles with no references should be excluded.
- Convert all DOIs to the full format https://doi.org/[prefix]/[suffix].
- The submission file must have a header and follow the specified format.
```csv
row_id,article_id,dataset_id,type
0,10.1002_cssc.202201821,https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7074790,Primary
1,10.1002_esp.5090,CHEMBL1097,Secondary
...
```
## Make Data Count (MDC)
- A global, community-led initiative developing metrics for assessing the use of open data.
- For over 10 years, it has promoted technical infrastructure, standardization of data usage, research on researcher behavior, and the development of a community for responsible evaluation of data reuse.
- Supported by philanthropic organizations, partner institutions, and community contributions.
- Competition sponsor: DataCite International Data Citation Initiative e.V.
- Prize funding: The Navigation Fund and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.




## Data
The full dataset is not included in this repository due to its large size.
Train and test dataset: [link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/make-data-count-finding-data-references/data)

## Model
The model dataset is not included in this repository due to its large size.
Model dataset: [link](https://www.kaggle.com/models/qwen-lm/qwen2.5/Transformers/32b-instruct-awq/1)

## Citation
Make Data Count, Maggie Demkin, and Walter Reade. Make Data Count - Finding Data References. https://kaggle.com/competitions/make-data-count-finding-data-references, 2025. Kaggle.
